# social_environments_model

This model is taken from my Master's thesis about Cultural Evolution and Dual-Inheritance Theory. Here I revise a model proposed by Henrich(2001) concerning the adoption of new technologies in a social environment. Henrich argued that a form of biased transmission (i.e. transmission of cultural biased by of our psychological dispositions) can explain the empirically-observed S-curve for technological diffusion. For Henrich, this is an example of how social transmission affects diffusion processes.
However, I argued that his strategy is unsound and that social environments are not properly taken into account. Other mechanisms (including individual trial/experiments coupled with information from the social environment) can adequately explain the empirical pattern. Additionally, Henrich has to make the unreasonable assumptions that psychological bias are somehow "given", fixed for every individual in the population, which means they are genetically inherited. I showed that this assumption is not necessary. A culturally-determined bias is, at least in principle, compatible with the data. 

The main file contains the structure of the code. Users can insert inputs such as the strength of biases, the size of the population and the presence/absence of cultural determinants. Different scenarios, with relative graphs, are presented. The function files contain the core functions required by the main code, in particular the Individual-Based Model that describes the evolution of the population under the initial conditions. 
